# REDIS STREAMS

A Redis stream is a data structure that acts like an append-only log but also implements several operations to overcome some of the limits of a typical append-only log. It stores different blocks, which are just key-value pairs, linked to a stream key. Redis generates a unique ID for each stream entry, allowing you to retrieve associated entries later or read and process all subsequent entries in the stream.

❗ Note that because these IDs are related to time, the ones shown here may vary and will be different from the IDs you see in your own Redis instance.

To understand **Streams**, read the content here ➡️ [link](https://medium.com/redis-with-raphael-de-lio/understanding-redis-streams-33aa96ca7206)

## Use Cases

You can use streams to record and simultaneously syndicate events in real time. Examples of Redis stream use cases include:

- **Event Sourcing**: Redis Streams can be used to track user actions, clicks, and other events in applications. By storing each action as a stream entry, developers can reconstruct the state of an application at any point in time, making it easier to debug issues and analyze user behavior.

- **Sensor Monitoring**: In IoT applications, Redis Streams can collect and analyze data from various sensors in real-time. For example, a temperature sensor can send readings to a stream, allowing for immediate processing and alerting if the temperature exceeds a certain threshold.

- **Notifications**: Streams can be utilized to manage user notifications efficiently. Each notification can be stored as a stream entry, allowing users to retrieve their notifications in the order they were received, ensuring that no important updates are missed.

- **Data Pipelines**: Redis Streams facilitate the movement of data between different services in a microservices architecture. For instance, data generated by one service can be streamed to another for processing, enabling real-time analytics and decision-making.

- **Chat Applications**: In chat applications, Redis Streams can be used to manage message history and facilitate real-time communication. Each message can be added to a stream, allowing users to retrieve their chat history and ensuring that messages are delivered in the correct order.

## Important Commands

### XADD
To add different blocks in a stream.

```bash
127.0.0.1:6379> XADD mystreamkey * temp 45 city "kolkata"
"1739981330599-0"
```

### XRANGE
To get a range of blocks of a stream.

```bash
127.0.0.1:6379> XRANGE mystreamkey 1739981330599-0 + COUNT 2
1) 1) "1739981330599-0"
   2) 1) "temp"
      2) "45"
      3) "city"
      4) "kolkata"
```

### XLEN
To get the length of a stream key (number of blocks in a stream).

```bash
127.0.0.1:6379> XLEN mystreamkey
(integer) 1
```

### XREAD
To read data from one or more streams.

```bash
127.0.0.1:6379> XREAD COUNT 2 STREAMS mystreamkey 0
```

### XREVRANGE
To get a range of blocks in reverse order.

```bash
127.0.0.1:6379> XREVRANGE mystreamkey + - COUNT 2
1) 1) "1739981330599-0"
   2) 1) "temp"
      2) "45"
      3) "city"
      4) "kolkata"
```

### XGROUP
To create a consumer group for the stream.

```bash
127.0.0.1:6379> XGROUP CREATE mystreamkey mygroup 0
```

### XACK
To acknowledge messages in a consumer group.

```bash
127.0.0.1:6379> XACK mystreamkey mygroup 1739981330599-0
```

### XREADGROUP
To read data from a stream as part of a consumer group.

```bash
127.0.0.1:6379> XREADGROUP GROUP mygroup Alice STREAMS mystreamkey >
```

## Explore More Commands
For a comprehensive list of Redis Stream commands, visit [Redis Commands Documentation](https://redis.io/docs/latest/commands/?group=stream).
